# Comparing and drawing the differences between different ML Models in forecasting weather by Vishal Panuganti

## Introduction
This project is to put in light on the factors that affect the performance of different Machine learning models.

Weather is a powerful natural phenomenon and has always been very unpredictable. We have been trying to predict weather using traditional methods like the use of a barometer, now casting, etc., which are useful to predict weather for a short range. Weather forecasting is beneficial for a lot of human activities such as Air travel, Agriculture, Marine, avoiding catastrophes or even planning an event. With the advancements in artificial intelligence and super computers weather forecasting is improving significantly

The purpose of this project is to apply different Machine Learning models like SVM, Decision Tree Regression, and Random Forest Regression and draw the differences between various factors that are influencing the prediction. 

## Data Set 

GHCN (Global Historical Climatology Network) Daily Summaries is a database that addresses need for historical daily temperature, precipitation, and snow records over global land areas. GHCN-Daily is a composite of climate records from numerous sources that were merged and then subjected to a suite of quality assurance reviews. The archive includes over 40 meteorological elements including temperature daily maximum/minimum, temperature at observation time, precipitation, snowfall, snow depth, evaporation, wind movement, wind maximums, soil temperature, cloudiness, etc. 

-Weather Data
https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/cdo-web/search?datasetid=GHCND

This weather data is generated by different weather stations around the area selected and can be accessed by ordering the required varaiables, flags, years, etc., depending on the requirment. 

## Hypothesis / Research Questins(s)
This project is to better understand the following:
  1. Differences between various Machine Learning Models/DL Models forecasts.
  2. Factors contributing to the precision and accuracy of each model.

## Implementation 





